The membrane is the biologic structure that separates the inside and the outside from the cell.
The cell membrane is not a static fleece. There is movement in it.
There are many proteins located in the membrane.
They are made by the ribosome, endoplasmic reticlum and Golgi apparatus.

Produced cells will then be transported to the cell membrane via a special transport tube.
When the cells arrive in the membrane, they then can perform various fuctions.
For example, they can transport substances which the membrane wouldn't let through itself.
This process is called 'facilitated diffusion'.


From DNA to proteins

DNA is the center of a membrane cell.
The first step for proteins to form from DNA is that there will be a copy created of the part of the DNA that codes the protein(mRNA).
This process is called 'transcription'.
That copy is made by RNA-polymerase, an special enzyme.
When it's done, it leaves the cell-nucleus.
After leaving; it travels to the cytoplasm, where the ribosomes are located.
The ribosomes bind themselvesto the mRNA. It then reads the message from the mRNA.
This results into a production of a chain made up of amino acids.
Transfer-RNA brings the amino acids to the ribosome.
Every 3 bases of the mRNA, a amino acid is delivered.
This will contribute to a chain of amino acids.
When the last amino acid is addded, the chain will fall and forms into an complex shape to form the protein.


SARS-CoV-2 investigation 

SARS-CoV-2 is a virus stain that is the cause of the infection of the coronavirus, COVID-19.
Both the original SARS-CoV and current SARS-CoV-2 use the same entry receptor and human poteases as entry activators.
That is human ACE2(hACE2).
A virus surface spike protein mediates mediates SARS-CoV-2 entry into cells.
The SARS-CoV-2 spike then binds itself to the human receptor (ACE2) with its receptor-binding domain (RBD).
It is proteolytically broken down by an enzyme that breaks down proteins and peptides (proteases).
The SARS-CoV-2 RBD binds better with hACE2 than the SARS-CoV RBD.
The spike of SARS-CoV-2 in its whole actually is comparable or lower than the one of SARS-CoV.
That means that even though SARS-CoV-2 RBD is stronger than the SARS-CoV RBD, it is also less exposed.
SARS-CoV-2 is already activated by proprotein convertase furin which means that it's less dependend on target cell proteases to enter.

Short summary: SARS-CoV-2 has high evasiveness with still a lot of strength. It also is much more severe in terms of danger than SARS-CoV

When the virus enters an healthy cell, the virus spreads RNA to tell ribosomes to reproduce the virus.
From there, it'll go to the edges of the cell for release so it can infect other cells from there.
One cell can release million copies of the virus which will then infect other surrounded cells.





Refrences:
https://www.pnas.org/content/117/21/11727
https://www.coronaviruspreventionnetwork.org/vaccine-basics/
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dA70ZdYhhCg

Self note 24/11/2020: Check spelling/grammar. Look if info received in the university matches with the info I looked up myself

Self note 25/11/2020: Next time read more through the content before deciding if it is usefull or not.
		   Review the content on other sources to validate the statements made.


